---
title: 'r2ogs6: An OpenGeoSys 6 interface'
tags:
  - R
  - OpenGeoSys
  - finite element method
  - FEM
authors:
  - name: Ruben Heinrich^[co-first author]
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Johannes Boog^[co-first author]
    orcid: 0000-0003-0872-7098
    affiliation: 2
affiliations:
 - name: Hochschule f체r Technik, Wirtschaft und Kultur Leipzig
   index: 1
 - name: Helmholtz-Zentrum f체r Umweltforschung
   index: 2
date: 02 August 2021
bibliography: paper.bib

---

# Summary
`r2ogs6` is an R package that acts as an interface for the finite element code `OpenGeoSys 6`. It contains functions that increase the usability of `OGS6` in different areas, the first of which being preprocessing. Simulation parameters can be defined in `R` by either reading in existing benchmark files or manually, using dedicated class objects. After all parameters have been defined, simulations can be started from `R` without having to switch to the command line. Finally, the output files can be read in to analyse the results.

In addition to single-simulation runs, `r2ogs6` supports ensemble runs that can be used to set up uncertainty and sensitivity analyses as well as parameter studies. It can also generate `R` scripts from existing `OpenGeoSys 6` benchmark files and includes some (non-exported) code generation functions for developers to speed up the updating process of the package. As an interface, `r2ogs6` naturally relies on `OpenGeoSys 6` to work. Additionally, a `Python` environment including the `numpy` and `vtk` packages is required.

<!-- noch weiter ausbauen: wie sieht die Struktur von r2ogs6 aus? ideal mit Schema, was kann man mit dem Paket machen? am nesten aus deiner MA-Thesis nehmen und einfach 체bersetzen.-->

# Statement of need
Implementations of the finite element method (FEM) have become integral tools in a lot of research areas today [@rtc-steefel]. One of these programs is `OpenGeoSys 6`, a scientific open source project for the development of numerical methods for the simulation of thermo-hydro-mechanical-chemical (THMC) processes in porous and fractured media [@ogs]. But while `OGS6` is a powerful FEM code, setting up, running and evaluating simulations with it can prove complicated. Besides the numerical solver itself, external pre- and postprocessing tools are needed to create the finite element mesh(es), define all necessary simulation parameters and read in the output files. With a workflow like this, research results can't be reproduced without knowledge of multiple programs.

Here is where high-level languages like `R` or `Python` can prove useful. Via an interface that adds a layer on top of the FEM code, the user can access preprocessing tools, the solver itself and postprocessing tools alike, thus increasing usability and accessibility. Since `R` is a popular language in the field of data science [@rranking] with many powerful packages for data analysis and visualisation, e. g. `dplyr` [@r-dplyr] and `ggplot2` [@r-ggplot2], it's a natural choice for processing data generated by simulation tools such as `OGS6`. For `R` users who don't have much (or any) experience with, but are interested in multi physics simulations in porous media, `r2ogs6` provides a good starting point. Utilizing `r2ogs6`, they can easily set up their first `OGS6` simulations by choosing one of many benchmark files for `OGS6`. As soon as a simulation is finished, results are read in automatically and can be processed further. More experienced users may want to define the simulation parameters themselves or instead alter an existing benchmark to make it fit their needs better. Both is possible with `r2ogs6`.

`r2ogs6` was designed to be used by researchers, data scientists and students working with `OpenGeoSys 6`. It has already been applied in [@heinrich:2021], where its ensemble functionality was tested utilizing the `OGS6` Theis' problem benchmark files [@benchmark-theis-problem; @benchmark-theis-solution]. The example simulations were set up using `r2ogs6` as an interface to read in the benchmarks, start the simulations, read in the output files produced by `OGS6` and lastly evaluate the results. By simplifieing the `OpenGeoSys 6` workflow as described, `r2ogs6` aims to bridge the gap between data produced by a scientific code and data science.

# References
<!-- bitte die Quellen erg채nzen-->
